Playwright Test is an end-to-end test framework for modern web apps. 
It bundles test runner, assertions, isolation, parallelization and rich tooling. 
Playwright supports Chromium, WebKit and Firefox on Windows, Linux and macOS, locally or in CI, 
headless or headed, with native mobile emulation for Chrome (Android) and Mobile Safari.


Reliable End to End testing why??
- Autowait capability, when u test any page may be it will take time to load, it will auto wait for test to execute.

Cross Browser Compatibility & Multiple Platform
- Chromium, Firefox, Opera

Multilingual Flexibility - Ability to write code in python, javascript, java, C#, typescript.

Tracing & Debugging: playwright have built in tracing & debugging capabilities including automatic screenshot, test video recording without writing single piece of code.
- have testrunner where u have to see the Action, Before & After execution and everystep u will get the screenshot.

Network Interception: we can utilize playwright API testing libraries to intercept and validate network calls within your web application, enable you to validate edge case scenario.

Browser Context Management : bypass cookies for next testcase bcoz everytime we have to login to execute another testcase.

Codegen Tools: when help u to create testcase code by recording your actions.



Playwright.config.js help us to run the tests that we have added and created.


In JavaScript, nesting means placing one construct (like an object, function, or loop) inside another to create a hierarchical or structured relationship.

It’s a way to organize code and data more clearly, especially when dealing with complex logic or multi-level data structures.



By default rach test enforces a 30 secound timeout.


The course covers two powerful frameworks for designing test cases:
- Playwright Cucumber BDD Framework
- Playwright with Mocha


https://techbeamers.com/manual-testing-interview-questions-experienced-qa/


Css Selector user page.locator()

If Id is present 
css -> tagname#id( or ) #id

If class attribute is present
css -> tagname.class( or ) .class

Write css based on any Attribute
css -> [attribute='value']

Write css with traversing from Parent to child
css -> parenttagname >> childtagname

If needs to write the locator based on text
text=''


Assertions

In Playwright, assertions are checks that validate whether your application behaves as expected during automated tests. 
They are implemented using the expect() function, which compares an actual value (from the app under test) to an expected value. 
If the condition fails, the test is marked as failed.


Practice Sites
https://rahulshettyacademy.com/practice



Features:
Cross-browser support: Works with Chromium, Firefox, and WebKit (Chrome, Edge, Safari)
Multiple language support: Supports JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Java, and C#
Auto-waiting: Automatically waits for elements to be ready before performing actions
Headless and headed execution: Run tests in background or with a visible browser
Network interception and mocking: Capture, modify, or block network requests
Parallel execution: Run tests faster using multiple workers
Mobile and device emulation: Test across different screen sizes and devices
Powerful selectors: Supports CSS, XPath, text, and role-based locators
Screenshots and videos: Capture execution for debugging and reporting
Built-in API testing: Test backend APIs without needing external tools
Because of this, Playwright enables fast, reliable, and scalable end-to-end testing across multiple browsers and platforms.





Specific browser
npx playwright test –project=firefox



What is a browser context in Playwright?
- A browser context in Playwright is like an incognito or private window. It allows you to create isolated browser sessions within a single browser instance.
- Each context has its own cookies, local storage, and cache, perfect for testing multiple users in parallel.

Why use contexts?
- Simulate multiple users
- Speed up tests by reusing a browser instance
- Improve test isolation without launching multiple browsers


How do you handle asynchronous operations like waiting for elements in Playwright?
- Playwright has built-in auto-waiting, which means it automatically waits for elements to be ready before interacting with them. However, you can still use manual waiting when needed, especially for dynamic content.

Example using waitForSelector():
- await page.waitForSelector(‘#user-info’, { state: ‘visible’ });
- await page.click(‘#user-info’);

Example using expect() (preferred):
- await expect(page.locator(‘#user-info’)).toBeVisible();
- Playwright’s expect() assertion includes retries and ensures the element meets the condition before proceeding.